README.md, before:

# COMP90019
The purpose of this project is to mine opinions from Twitter by collecting tweets in real-time over a distributed streaming platform. Sentiment analysis are applied on text found in tweets in conjunction with non-textual information e.g. emojis and images, that are peculiar in microblogging platforms. Tweets from trending topics are collected using the Twitter Streaming API, pre-processed, analysed and then centrally stored for retrospective analysis. Through data augmentation, by using additional features from non-textual information, we have built a real-time distributed analytics platform that performs opinion mining on Twitter data which can be extended to any other social media platform.

## Getting Started

These instructions will get you a copy of the project up and running on your local machine for development and testing purposes. See deployment for notes on how to deploy the project on a live system.

### Prerequisites

Download the project source code from Github and compile it using Maven. The following must be installed to build the project using Maven.

* Java SDK 1.7 or 1.8 [link](https://www.java.com/en/download/)
* Maven 3.6 [link](https://maven.apache.org/install.html)

Below are the general steps required to setup a Storm cluster [link](http://storm.apache.org/releases/1.2.2/Setting-up-a-Storm-cluster.html):

1. Set up a Zookeeper cluster [link](http://zookeeper.apache.org/doc/r3.3.3/zookeeperAdmin.html)
2. Install dependencies on Nimbus and worker machines
3. Download and extract a Storm release to Nimbus and worker machines
4. Fill in mandatory configurations into storm.yaml *(not required on a single machine cluster)*
5. Launch daemons under supervision using "storm" script and a supervisor of your choice

For each worker machine on the Storm cluster, the following must be installed:
* Apache Storm 1.2.2 [link](https://storm.apache.org/downloads.html)
* Python 2.7 AND 3.6 [link](https://www.python.org/downloads/)
* Python 2.7 dependencies and NLTK
* Python 3.6 dependencies and Tesseract 4

Setup twitter credentials as follows:
1. Rename `config\twitter4j.properties.empty` to `config\twitter4j.properties`
2. Register for application tokens using a Twitter developer account [(click here for details)](https://developer.twitter.com/en/docs/basics/authentication/guides/access-tokens.html)
3. Copy the `consumerKey`, `consumerSecret`, `accessToken`, `accessTokenSecret` into `twitter4j.properties`  before packaging the project for deployment
```
debug=true
oauth.consumerKey=<insert-consumer-key-here>
oauth.consumerSecret=<insert-consumer-secret-here>
oauth.accessToken=<insert-access-token-here>
oauth.accessTokenSecret=<insert-access-token-secret-here>
tweetModeExtended=true
```

Download and unpack Elasticsearch and Kibana for your distribution
* Elasticsearch 7.0 [link](https://www.elastic.co/downloads/elasticsearch)
* Kibana 7.0 [link](https://www.elastic.co/downloads/kibana)

Ensure that the version of `elasticsearch-storm` dependency inside the `pom.xml` build file is the same or greater than the Elasticsearch version installed. Otherwise, EsBolt will throw a version exception.
```
<!-- https://mvnrepository.com/artifact/org.elasticsearch/elasticsearch-storm -->
<dependency>
    <groupId>org.elasticsearch</groupId>
    <artifactId>elasticsearch-storm</artifactId>
    <version>7.0.0</version>
</dependency>
```

**IMPORTANT:** The following data directories must be created to process tweet images
```
mkdir /data/tweet/images/
mkdir /data/seaweedfs/data1/
```

### Installing Dependencies

Note that all dependencies must be installed on each worker machine on the Storm cluster. We use `pip install` to install packages into Python 2 and `pip3 install` for Python 3. Ensure that this is the same for your environment or adjust the installation procedures accordingly. Python 2 scripts are executed with `python <script-name>` and Python 3 scripts are executed with `python3 <script-name>`. Python scripts are located in `multilang/resources` under the project folder and are executed by Storm bolts as follows:

```java
public class SanitizeBolt extends ShellBolt implements IRichBolt {
    public SanitizeBolt() {
        /* Execute sanitize.py in Python 2 */
        super("python", "sanitize.py");
        /* Execute sanitize.py in Python 3 */
        //super("python3", "sanitize.py");
    }
    
    ...
}
```

1. Install Python 2.7 dependencies
    * *twitter-text-python* [link](https://pypi.org/project/twitter-text-python/): parse twitter text and convert them to html for display
    * *emoji* [link](https://pypi.org/project/emoji/): convert emojis into text descriptions
    * *vaderSentiment* [link](https://pypi.org/project/vader-sentiment/): analyse sentiment polarity (of tweet) using vader
    ```
    sudo pip install twitter-text-python
    sudo pip install emoji
    sudo pip install vaderSentiment
    ```

    **Important**:
    * vaderSentiment.py has been ported to python 3 and must be modified to work with python 2.7
    * Add "from io import open" to vaderSentiment.py
    <https://github.com/cjhutto/vaderSentiment/issues/47>

2. Install NLTK [link](https://www.nltk.org/install.html):
    ```
    sudo pip install -U nltk
    ```

    1. Launch the python interpreter over the command line.
        ```
        MacBook-Pro:comp90019 malcolmchu$ python
        Python 2.7.10 (default, Feb 22 2019, 21:17:52) 
        [GCC 4.2.1 Compatible Apple LLVM 10.0.1 (clang-1001.0.37.14)] on darwin
        Type "help", "copyright", "credits" or "license" for more information.
        >>>
        ```

    2. Below are NLTK packages that has to be installed via the python interpreter:
        * *models/punkt*: Punkt Tokenizer Models
        * *copora/stopwords*: Stopwords Corpus
        * *copora/wordnet*: WordNet
        ```python
        >>> import nltk
        >>> nltk.download('punkt')
        >>> nltk.download('stopwords')
        >>> nltk.download('wordnet')
        ```

3. Install Python 3.6 dependencies
	* *wget* [link](https://pypi.org/project/wget/): download tweet images using wget
    * *opencv-contrib-python* [link](https://pypi.org/project/opencv-contrib-python/): Pre-built OpenCV packages for Python
    * *imutils* [link](https://pypi.org/project/imutils/): Series of convenience functions to make basic image processing functions
    * *pillow* [link](https://pypi.org/project/Pillow/): Read all image types supported by the Python Imaging Library e.g. jpeg, png, gif, bmp, tiff, etc.
    * *pytesseract* [link](https://pypi.org/project/pytesseract/): Python-tesseract is a wrapper for Google’s Tesseract-OCR Engine and uses pillow to provide additional support for most image formats (Tesseract supports only tiff and bmp by default).
    ```
    sudo pip3 install wget
    sudo pip3 install opencv-contrib-python
    sudo pip3 install imutils
    sudo pip3 install pillow
    sudo pip3 install pytesseract
    ```

4. Install Tesseract 4 [link](https://github.com/tesseract-ocr/tesseract/wiki)

    Tesseract is available directly from many Linux distributions. The package is generally called 'tesseract' or 'tesseract-ocr' - search your distribution's repositories to find it. Refer to the installation guide above.

    For Ubuntu:
    ```
    sudo apt install tesseract-ocr
    ```

    For MacOS:
    ```
    brew install tesseract
    ```

    Run "tesseract -v" on the command line to test if tesseract is installed properly:
    ```
    MacBook-Pro:comp90019 malcolmchu$ tesseract -v
    tesseract 4.1.0-rc1
     leptonica-1.78.0
      libgif 5.1.4 : libjpeg 9c : libpng 1.6.37 : libtiff 4.0.10 : zlib 1.2.11 : libwebp 1.0.2 : libopenjp2 2.3.1
     Found AVX2
     Found AVX
     Found SSE
    ```
    
    If you see `tesseract 4` in the output, it means that tesseract has been installed.

5. Install SeaweedFS [link](https://github.com/chrislusf/seaweedfs/wiki/Getting-Started)

    Step 1: Install Go on your machine and setup the environment by following the instructions at:
    
    <https://golang.org/doc/install>

    **Note**: Make sure you set up your `$GOPATH`

    Step 2: Install Mercurial by following the instructions at:

    <http://mercurial.selenic.com/downloads>

    Step 3: Download, compile, and install the project by executing the following command:
    ```
    go get github.com/chrislusf/seaweedfs/weed
    ```
    Once this is done, you will find the executable "weed" in your `$GOPATH/bin` directory

## Build

Using standard Maven commands, build the project from the project home directory. Java dependencies are declared in `pom.xml` and may take awhile to download (for the first time). If the build is successful, the JAR file will be available under the `target` directory.

Configure ES settings in `Constants.java` depending on the ES version installed:

**Note**: Mapping types have been removed in ES 7.0 [(click here for details)](https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/elasticsearch/reference/current/removal-of-types.html#_why_are_mapping_types_being_removed):
```java
public static final String ES_SERVER = "localhost";
public static final String ES_PORT = "9200";
// ES 6.7 - index:twitter, type:tweet
// public static final String ES_TWEET_INDEX = "twitter/tweet";
// ES 7.0 - index:twitter-tweet (type has been removed)
public static final String ES_TWEET_INDEX = "twitter-tweet";
public static final String ES_IMAGE_INDEX = "twitter-tweet-image";
public static final String ES_SUBMIT_BATCH_SIZE = "500";
public static final int ES_SUBMIT_INTERVAL_IN_SECONDS = 15;
```

To clean the build, execute:
```
mvn clean
```

Sample output:
```
[INFO] 
[INFO] -----------------------< edu.unimelb:comp90019 >------------------------
[INFO] Building comp90019 0.0.1-SNAPSHOT
[INFO] --------------------------------[ jar ]---------------------------------
[INFO] 
[INFO] --- maven-clean-plugin:2.5:clean (default-clean) @ comp90019 ---
[INFO] Deleting /Users/malcolmchu/Repository/comp90019/target
[INFO] ------------------------------------------------------------------------
[INFO] BUILD SUCCESS
[INFO] ------------------------------------------------------------------------
[INFO] Total time:  0.235 s
[INFO] Finished at: 2019-04-22T08:35:59+10:00
[INFO] ------------------------------------------------------------------------
```

To build the project, execute:
```
mvn package
```

Sample output:
```
[INFO] 
[INFO] -----------------------< edu.unimelb:comp90019 >------------------------
[INFO] Building comp90019 0.0.1-SNAPSHOT
[INFO] --------------------------------[ jar ]---------------------------------
...
[INFO] Replacing /Users/malcolmchu/Repository/comp90019/target/comp90019-0.0.1-SNAPSHOT.jar with /Users/malcolmchu/Repository/comp90019/target/comp90019-0.0.1-SNAPSHOT-shaded.jar
[INFO] Dependency-reduced POM written at: /Users/malcolmchu/Repository/comp90019/dependency-reduced-pom.xml
[INFO] ------------------------------------------------------------------------
[INFO] BUILD SUCCESS
[INFO] ------------------------------------------------------------------------
[INFO] Total time:  27.681 s
[INFO] Finished at: 2019-04-22T08:37:09+10:00
[INFO] ------------------------------------------------------------------------
```

## Deployment

Either start the storm cluster **1 a)** manually or **1 b)** under supervision *(recommended)*

**1 a)** Start the storm cluster manually.

* Start zookeeper from its installation directory e.g. /Developer/zookeeper-3.4.13/bin/
  ``` 
  ./zkServer.sh start
  ```

* Start storm from its installation directory e.g. /Developer/apache-storm-1.2.2/bin/
  ```
  storm nimbus
  storm supervisor
  storm ui
  ```

**Note**: Storm UI can be accessed via <http://localhost:8080>.

**1 b)** Start the storm cluster under supervision *(recommended)*.

The following processes are fail-fast (will halt when an error is encountered) and must be restarted automatically by a supervisory process.
* Zookeeper using daemontools or SMF [link](http://zookeeper.apache.org/doc/r3.3.3/zookeeperAdmin.html#sc_supervision).
* Nimbus and Supervisor using daemontools or monit [link](http://storm.apache.org/releases/current/Fault-tolerance.html)

You can choose any supervisory process to monitor Zookeeper, Nimbus and Supervisor. We have chosen supervisord and the setup instructions is available [here](https://morgankenyon.wordpress.com/2015/08/22/running-apache-storm-under-supervision-supervisord/).

* Install supervisor using pip
  ```
  sudo pip install supervisor
  ```

* Make a copy of the default supervisord conf
  ```
  echo_supervisord_conf > /Developer/supervisor/supervisord.conf
  ```

* Modify the new supervisord.conf by adding the commands to start zookeeper, nimbus, supervisor and ui
  ```
  ; run zookeeper, nimbus, supervisor, ui under supervision
  [program:zookeeper]
  command=/Developer/zookeeper-3.4.13/bin/zkServer.sh start-foreground

  [program:storm_nimbus]
  command=/Developer/apache-storm-1.2.2/bin/storm nimbus

  [program:storm_supervisor]
  command=/Developer/apache-storm-1.2.2/bin/storm supervisor

  [program:storm_ui]
  command=/Developer/apache-storm-1.2.2/bin/storm ui
  ```

* Start storm cluster under supervision by executing the following:
  ```
  supervisord -c /Developer/supervisor/supervisord.conf
  supervisorctl -c /Developer/supervisor/supervisord.conf
  ```

**2.** Start Elasticsearch from its installation directory
```
./bin/elasticsearch
```

**3.** Start Kibana from its installation directory
```
./bin/kibana
```

**4.** Create the twitter index on Elasticsearch

Launch Elasticsearch UI and Kibana UI on the browser

  * Elasticsearch Indices <http://localhost:9200/_cat/indices?v>
  * Kibana Dashboard <http://localhost:5601/app/kibana>

**Important**: Elasticsearch indices must be set up in Kibana before running the storm topology.

Deleting an index (including all its data):
1. Go to Kibana > Dev Tools
2. Type command `DELETE <index-name>` into the console
3. Press play (next to command)

Create the twitter index:
1. Go to Kibana > Dev Tools
2. Copy the contents from `elastic/es7_index_mapping.json` into the console
3. Press play (next to command)

Below is a sample of the twitter index structure.
```
PUT twitter-tweet
{
  "settings":{
    "number_of_shards":5,
    "number_of_replicas":1,
    "analysis":{
    ...
    }
  },
  "mappings": {
    "properties": {
    ...
    }
  }
}
```

**5.** Import saved index-patterns, visualisation and dashboard in Kibana

1. Go to Kibana > Management > Kibana (Saved Objects)
2. Click on Import (at the top) to bring up the import side window
3. Click on Import (link) and select `kibana/k7_export.json` from the project directory
4. Click on Import (button) at the bottom of the side window

Once successfully imported, you will be able to go to `Discover`, `Visualize` and `Dashboard` in the left side bar of Kibana to open saved objects that have been pre-built for this project.

**6.** Start SeaweedFS (1 master and 1 volume) from `$GOPATH/bin` directory
```
./weed server -master.port=9333 -volume.port=9001 -dir="/data/seaweedfs/data1/"
```

**7 a)** Run storm topology on a storm cluster
```
storm jar target/comp90019-0.0.1-SNAPSHOT.jar edu.unimelb.comp90019.TwitterTopology -t <topology-id>
```

Supported flags
* -t "storm topology id e.g. twitter-trends; if unspecified, storm will run topology in local mode"
* -i "sample tweets by place (woeid) trends; default = 1103816 (Melbourne)"
* -k "sample tweets by additional keywords, in quotes \"keyword1 keyword2 ... \" "

**7 b)** Stop storm topology
```
storm kill <topology-id>
```

## Built With

* [Maven](https://maven.apache.org/) - Dependency Management
* [Apache Storm](https://storm.apache.org/) - Distributed Realtime Computation System
* [Elasticsearch](https://www.elastic.co/products/elasticsearch) - Distributed, RESTful search and analytics engine
* [Kibana](https://www.elastic.co/products/kibana) - Visualize data in Elasticsearch
* [SeaweedFS](https://github.com/chrislusf/seaweedfs) - Upload images to a distributed file system

## Authors

* **Malcolm Chu** - [malcolmchu](https://github.com/malcolmchu)

See also the list of [contributors](https://github.com/malcolmchu/comp90019/contributors) who participated in this project.
* **ABC** - [abc](https://github.com/abc)
* **XYZ** - [xyz](https://github.com/xyz)

## License

This program is free software: you can redistribute it and/or modify it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the Free Software Foundation, either version 3 of the License, or (at your option) any later version. This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. See the GNU General Public License for more details.

You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License along with this program.  If not, see <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>

## Acknowledgments

OCR Text Recognition is adapted from [PyImageSearch](https://www.pyimagesearch.com/2018/09/17/opencv-ocr-and-text-recognition-with-tesseract/), originally written by Adrian Rosebrock

Commit message:

Updated project description and cleaned up code
- Updated project description
- Clean up code
- Added StanfordNLP example

README.md, after:

# COMP90019
The purpose of this project is to mine opinions from Twitter by collecting and analysing tweets in near real-time over a distributed streaming platform. Sentiment analysis are applied on text found in tweets in conjunction with non-textual information e.g. emojis and images, that are peculiar in microblogging platforms. Tweets from trending topics are collected, pre-processed, analysed and then centrally stored for retrospective analysis. Over the last few years, deep learning has brought about new capabilities in image understanding e.g. classification, object detection, face detection. For social media platforms, mining textual information from images is important to track messages that spreads through images. However, creating a new deep learning algorithm is too intricate and time consuming for many who are interested in this field. It is much more efficient to combine pre-trained deep learning models that have been proven to accomplish the task. Here we have added deep learning libraries for text detection and recognition into our distributed streaming platform to extract text from images. Through data augmentation, by using additional features from non-textual information, we have built a real-time analytics platform that performs opinion mining on Twitter data which can be extended to any other social media platform.

## Getting Started

These instructions will get you a copy of the project up and running on your local machine for development and testing purposes. See deployment for notes on how to deploy the project on a live system.

### Prerequisites

Download the project source code from Github and compile it using Maven. The following must be installed to build the project using Maven.

* Java SDK 1.7 or 1.8 [link](https://www.java.com/en/download/)
* Maven 3.6 [link](https://maven.apache.org/install.html)

Below are the general steps required to setup a Storm cluster [link](http://storm.apache.org/releases/1.2.2/Setting-up-a-Storm-cluster.html):

1. Set up a Zookeeper cluster [link](http://zookeeper.apache.org/doc/r3.3.3/zookeeperAdmin.html)
2. Install dependencies on Nimbus and worker machines
3. Download and extract a Storm release to Nimbus and worker machines
4. Fill in mandatory configurations into storm.yaml *(not required on a single machine cluster)*
5. Launch daemons under supervision using "storm" script and a supervisor of your choice

For each worker machine on the Storm cluster, the following must be installed:
* Apache Storm 1.2.2 [link](https://storm.apache.org/downloads.html)
* Python 2.7 AND 3.6 [link](https://www.python.org/downloads/)
* Python 2.7 dependencies and NLTK
* Python 3.6 dependencies and Tesseract 4

Setup twitter credentials as follows:
1. Rename `config\twitter4j.properties.empty` to `config\twitter4j.properties`
2. Register for application tokens using a Twitter developer account [(click here for details)](https://developer.twitter.com/en/docs/basics/authentication/guides/access-tokens.html)
3. Copy the `consumerKey`, `consumerSecret`, `accessToken`, `accessTokenSecret` into `twitter4j.properties`  before packaging the project for deployment
```
debug=true
oauth.consumerKey=<insert-consumer-key-here>
oauth.consumerSecret=<insert-consumer-secret-here>
oauth.accessToken=<insert-access-token-here>
oauth.accessTokenSecret=<insert-access-token-secret-here>
tweetModeExtended=true
```

Download and unpack Elasticsearch and Kibana for your distribution
* Elasticsearch 7.0 [link](https://www.elastic.co/downloads/elasticsearch)
* Kibana 7.0 [link](https://www.elastic.co/downloads/kibana)

Ensure that the version of `elasticsearch-storm` dependency inside the `pom.xml` build file is the same or greater than the Elasticsearch version installed. Otherwise, EsBolt will throw a version exception.
```
<!-- https://mvnrepository.com/artifact/org.elasticsearch/elasticsearch-storm -->
<dependency>
    <groupId>org.elasticsearch</groupId>
    <artifactId>elasticsearch-storm</artifactId>
    <version>7.0.0</version>
</dependency>
```

**IMPORTANT:** The following data directories must be created to process tweet images
```
mkdir /data/tweet/images/
mkdir /data/seaweedfs/data1/
```

### Installing Dependencies

Note that all dependencies must be installed on each worker machine on the Storm cluster. We use `pip install` to install packages into Python 2 and `pip3 install` for Python 3. Ensure that this is the same for your environment or adjust the installation procedures accordingly. Python 2 scripts are executed with `python <script-name>` and Python 3 scripts are executed with `python3 <script-name>`. Python scripts are located in `multilang/resources` under the project folder and are executed by Storm bolts as follows:

```java
public class SanitizeBolt extends ShellBolt implements IRichBolt {
    public SanitizeBolt() {
        /* Execute sanitize.py in Python 2 */
        super("python", "sanitize.py");
        /* Execute sanitize.py in Python 3 */
        //super("python3", "sanitize.py");
    }
    
    ...
}
```

1. Install Python 2.7 dependencies
    * *twitter-text-python* [link](https://pypi.org/project/twitter-text-python/): parse twitter text and convert them to html for display
    * *emoji* [link](https://pypi.org/project/emoji/): convert emojis into text descriptions
    * *vaderSentiment* [link](https://pypi.org/project/vader-sentiment/): analyse sentiment polarity (of tweet) using vader
    ```
    sudo pip install twitter-text-python
    sudo pip install emoji
    sudo pip install vaderSentiment
    ```

    **Important**:
    * vaderSentiment.py has been ported to python 3 and must be modified to work with python 2.7
    * Add "from io import open" to vaderSentiment.py
    <https://github.com/cjhutto/vaderSentiment/issues/47>

2. Install NLTK [link](https://www.nltk.org/install.html):
    ```
    sudo pip install -U nltk
    ```

    1. Launch the python interpreter over the command line.
        ```
        MacBook-Pro:comp90019 malcolmchu$ python
        Python 2.7.10 (default, Feb 22 2019, 21:17:52) 
        [GCC 4.2.1 Compatible Apple LLVM 10.0.1 (clang-1001.0.37.14)] on darwin
        Type "help", "copyright", "credits" or "license" for more information.
        >>>
        ```

    2. Below are NLTK packages that has to be installed via the python interpreter:
        * *models/punkt*: Punkt Tokenizer Models
        * *copora/stopwords*: Stopwords Corpus
        * *copora/wordnet*: WordNet
        ```python
        >>> import nltk
        >>> nltk.download('punkt')
        >>> nltk.download('stopwords')
        >>> nltk.download('wordnet')
        ```

3. Install Python 3.6 dependencies
	* *wget* [link](https://pypi.org/project/wget/): download tweet images using wget
    * *opencv-contrib-python* [link](https://pypi.org/project/opencv-contrib-python/): Pre-built OpenCV packages for Python
    * *imutils* [link](https://pypi.org/project/imutils/): Series of convenience functions to make basic image processing functions
    * *pillow* [link](https://pypi.org/project/Pillow/): Read all image types supported by the Python Imaging Library e.g. jpeg, png, gif, bmp, tiff, etc.
    * *pytesseract* [link](https://pypi.org/project/pytesseract/): Python-tesseract is a wrapper for Google’s Tesseract-OCR Engine and uses pillow to provide additional support for most image formats (Tesseract supports only tiff and bmp by default).
    ```
    sudo pip3 install wget
    sudo pip3 install opencv-contrib-python
    sudo pip3 install imutils
    sudo pip3 install pillow
    sudo pip3 install pytesseract
    ```

4. Install Tesseract 4 [link](https://github.com/tesseract-ocr/tesseract/wiki)

    Tesseract is available directly from many Linux distributions. The package is generally called 'tesseract' or 'tesseract-ocr' - search your distribution's repositories to find it. Refer to the installation guide above.

    For Ubuntu:
    ```
    sudo apt install tesseract-ocr
    ```

    For MacOS:
    ```
    brew install tesseract
    ```

    Run "tesseract -v" on the command line to test if tesseract is installed properly:
    ```
    MacBook-Pro:comp90019 malcolmchu$ tesseract -v
    tesseract 4.1.0-rc1
     leptonica-1.78.0
      libgif 5.1.4 : libjpeg 9c : libpng 1.6.37 : libtiff 4.0.10 : zlib 1.2.11 : libwebp 1.0.2 : libopenjp2 2.3.1
     Found AVX2
     Found AVX
     Found SSE
    ```
    
    If you see `tesseract 4` in the output, it means that tesseract has been installed.

5. Install SeaweedFS [link](https://github.com/chrislusf/seaweedfs/wiki/Getting-Started)

    Step 1: Install Go on your machine and setup the environment by following the instructions at:
    
    <https://golang.org/doc/install>

    **Note**: Make sure you set up your `$GOPATH`

    Step 2: Install Mercurial by following the instructions at:

    <http://mercurial.selenic.com/downloads>

    Step 3: Download, compile, and install the project by executing the following command:
    ```
    go get github.com/chrislusf/seaweedfs/weed
    ```
    Once this is done, you will find the executable "weed" in your `$GOPATH/bin` directory

## Build

Using standard Maven commands, build the project from the project home directory. Java dependencies are declared in `pom.xml` and may take awhile to download (for the first time). If the build is successful, the JAR file will be available under the `target` directory.

Configure ES settings in `Constants.java` depending on the ES version installed:

**Note**: Mapping types have been removed in ES 7.0 [(click here for details)](https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/elasticsearch/reference/current/removal-of-types.html#_why_are_mapping_types_being_removed):
```java
public static final String ES_SERVER = "localhost";
public static final String ES_PORT = "9200";
// ES 6.7 - index:twitter, type:tweet
// public static final String ES_TWEET_INDEX = "twitter/tweet";
// ES 7.0 - index:twitter-tweet (type has been removed)
public static final String ES_TWEET_INDEX = "twitter-tweet";
public static final String ES_IMAGE_INDEX = "twitter-tweet-image";
public static final String ES_SUBMIT_BATCH_SIZE = "500";
public static final int ES_SUBMIT_INTERVAL_IN_SECONDS = 15;
```

To clean the build, execute:
```
mvn clean
```

Sample output:
```
[INFO] 
[INFO] -----------------------< edu.unimelb:comp90019 >------------------------
[INFO] Building comp90019 0.0.1-SNAPSHOT
[INFO] --------------------------------[ jar ]---------------------------------
[INFO] 
[INFO] --- maven-clean-plugin:2.5:clean (default-clean) @ comp90019 ---
[INFO] Deleting /Users/malcolmchu/Repository/comp90019/target
[INFO] ------------------------------------------------------------------------
[INFO] BUILD SUCCESS
[INFO] ------------------------------------------------------------------------
[INFO] Total time:  0.235 s
[INFO] Finished at: 2019-04-22T08:35:59+10:00
[INFO] ------------------------------------------------------------------------
```

To build the project, execute:
```
mvn package
```

Sample output:
```
[INFO] 
[INFO] -----------------------< edu.unimelb:comp90019 >------------------------
[INFO] Building comp90019 0.0.1-SNAPSHOT
[INFO] --------------------------------[ jar ]---------------------------------
...
[INFO] Replacing /Users/malcolmchu/Repository/comp90019/target/comp90019-0.0.1-SNAPSHOT.jar with /Users/malcolmchu/Repository/comp90019/target/comp90019-0.0.1-SNAPSHOT-shaded.jar
[INFO] Dependency-reduced POM written at: /Users/malcolmchu/Repository/comp90019/dependency-reduced-pom.xml
[INFO] ------------------------------------------------------------------------
[INFO] BUILD SUCCESS
[INFO] ------------------------------------------------------------------------
[INFO] Total time:  27.681 s
[INFO] Finished at: 2019-04-22T08:37:09+10:00
[INFO] ------------------------------------------------------------------------
```

## Deployment

Either start the storm cluster **1 a)** manually or **1 b)** under supervision *(recommended)*

**1 a)** Start the storm cluster manually.

* Start zookeeper from its installation directory e.g. /Developer/zookeeper-3.4.13/bin/
  ``` 
  ./zkServer.sh start
  ```

* Start storm from its installation directory e.g. /Developer/apache-storm-1.2.2/bin/
  ```
  storm nimbus
  storm supervisor
  storm ui
  ```

**Note**: Storm UI can be accessed via <http://localhost:8080>.

**1 b)** Start the storm cluster under supervision *(recommended)*.

The following processes are fail-fast (will halt when an error is encountered) and must be restarted automatically by a supervisory process.
* Zookeeper using daemontools or SMF [link](http://zookeeper.apache.org/doc/r3.3.3/zookeeperAdmin.html#sc_supervision).
* Nimbus and Supervisor using daemontools or monit [link](http://storm.apache.org/releases/current/Fault-tolerance.html)

You can choose any supervisory process to monitor Zookeeper, Nimbus and Supervisor. We have chosen supervisord and the setup instructions is available [here](https://morgankenyon.wordpress.com/2015/08/22/running-apache-storm-under-supervision-supervisord/).

* Install supervisor using pip
  ```
  sudo pip install supervisor
  ```

* Make a copy of the default supervisord conf
  ```
  echo_supervisord_conf > /Developer/supervisor/supervisord.conf
  ```

* Modify the new supervisord.conf by adding the commands to start zookeeper, nimbus, supervisor and ui
  ```
  ; run zookeeper, nimbus, supervisor, ui under supervision
  [program:zookeeper]
  command=/Developer/zookeeper-3.4.13/bin/zkServer.sh start-foreground

  [program:storm_nimbus]
  command=/Developer/apache-storm-1.2.2/bin/storm nimbus

  [program:storm_supervisor]
  command=/Developer/apache-storm-1.2.2/bin/storm supervisor

  [program:storm_ui]
  command=/Developer/apache-storm-1.2.2/bin/storm ui
  ```

* Start storm cluster under supervision by executing the following:
  ```
  supervisord -c /Developer/supervisor/supervisord.conf
  supervisorctl -c /Developer/supervisor/supervisord.conf
  ```

**2.** Start Elasticsearch from its installation directory
```
./bin/elasticsearch
```

**3.** Start Kibana from its installation directory
```
./bin/kibana
```

**4.** Create the twitter index on Elasticsearch

Launch Elasticsearch UI and Kibana UI on the browser

  * Elasticsearch Indices <http://localhost:9200/_cat/indices?v>
  * Kibana Dashboard <http://localhost:5601/app/kibana>

**Important**: Elasticsearch indices must be set up in Kibana before running the storm topology.

Deleting an index (including all its data):
1. Go to Kibana > Dev Tools
2. Type command `DELETE <index-name>` into the console
3. Press play (next to command)

Create the twitter index:
1. Go to Kibana > Dev Tools
2. Copy the contents from `elastic/es7_index_mapping.json` into the console
3. Press play (next to command)

Below is a sample of the twitter index structure.
```
PUT twitter-tweet
{
  "settings":{
    "number_of_shards":5,
    "number_of_replicas":1,
    "analysis":{
    ...
    }
  },
  "mappings": {
    "properties": {
    ...
    }
  }
}
```

**5.** Import saved index-patterns, visualisation and dashboard in Kibana

1. Go to Kibana > Management > Kibana (Saved Objects)
2. Click on Import (at the top) to bring up the import side window
3. Click on Import (link) and select `kibana/k7_export.json` from the project directory
4. Click on Import (button) at the bottom of the side window

Once successfully imported, you will be able to go to `Discover`, `Visualize` and `Dashboard` in the left side bar of Kibana to open saved objects that have been pre-built for this project.

**6.** Start SeaweedFS (1 master and 1 volume) from `$GOPATH/bin` directory
```
./weed server -master.port=9333 -volume.port=9001 -dir="/data/seaweedfs/data1/"
```

**7 a)** Run storm topology on a storm cluster
```
storm jar target/comp90019-0.0.1-SNAPSHOT.jar edu.unimelb.comp90019.TwitterTopology -t <topology-id>
```

Supported flags
* -t "storm topology id e.g. twitter-trends; if unspecified, storm will run topology in local mode"
* -i "sample tweets by place (woeid) trends; default = 1103816 (Melbourne)"
* -k "sample tweets by additional keywords, in quotes \"keyword1 keyword2 ... \" "

**7 b)** Stop storm topology
```
storm kill <topology-id>
```

## Built With

* [Maven](https://maven.apache.org/) - Dependency Management
* [Apache Storm](https://storm.apache.org/) - Distributed Realtime Computation System
* [Elasticsearch](https://www.elastic.co/products/elasticsearch) - Distributed, RESTful search and analytics engine
* [Kibana](https://www.elastic.co/products/kibana) - Visualize data in Elasticsearch
* [SeaweedFS](https://github.com/chrislusf/seaweedfs) - Upload images to a distributed file system

## Authors

* **Malcolm Chu** - [malcolmchu](https://github.com/malcolmchu)

See also the list of [contributors](https://github.com/malcolmchu/comp90019/contributors) who participated in this project.
* **ABC** - [abc](https://github.com/abc)
* **XYZ** - [xyz](https://github.com/xyz)

## License

This program is free software: you can redistribute it and/or modify it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the Free Software Foundation, either version 3 of the License, or (at your option) any later version. This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. See the GNU General Public License for more details.

You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License along with this program.  If not, see <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>

## Acknowledgments

OCR Text Recognition is adapted from [PyImageSearch](https://www.pyimagesearch.com/2018/09/17/opencv-ocr-and-text-recognition-with-tesseract/), originally written by Adrian Rosebrock
